foreign
[Music]
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease
[Music]
the wonderful thing about triggers is
triggers are wonderful things the tops
are made out of anger the bottoms are
made out of Shame the Topsy Topsy Topsy
Topsy fun fun fun fun fun the most
wonderful thing about triggers is you're
the triggered one oh yeah that's
definitely a great start to this podcast
I'm just imagining somebody out there
right now I'll like once or triggered by
your song
[Laughter]
that's not wonderful that I'm triggered
what are you talking about
okay now that we've got you all
triggered we have your attention
welcome to today's episode
awesome okay so what what questions what
are the questions where are we going I
mean I guess we could start with just
how do how do we talk about what a
trigger is what it means to be triggered
I've I thought we were going to start
with like you just trying to trigger
each other that would have been just
hilarious in my world if you're like
where do we start you never do the
dishes
you tell me where to start this isn't my
job
hey Alexa will you just go ahead and
take care of the starting the podcast
thing for us
it actually does hurt
[Laughter]
oh wow okay so we didn't trigger them
with the song we're triggering them with
not starting this podcast quick enough
this is wonderful uh so so what is a
trigger yeah that word is used
um pretty uh fluidly these days like and
I think it's even become politicized
where people are
I don't like like if someone says I'm
triggered you know there's a a way that
some people feel like
oh God shut up don't tell me that you're
triggered and other people feel like
that it's them trying to protect
themselves so I want to like
let go of all of those definitions of
being triggered and just say triggered
is when I would say trigger is when
you're
in your trauma
rather than in yourself and so one of
the things about trauma the way that it
works whether it's
the kind of trauma that's like an acute
car accident or War episode or if it's
something that's like long term over
time such as
always you know being rejected by your
parents when you were scared or when you
were angry
um
the thing about trauma is that you're
not in the moment anymore you're living
in the past you're living in the moment
that the trauma happened so
with acute PTSD you know somebody's in
Ohio and a car back buyers and they
think they're in Kabul
and
and in relationships you're like
transported back into you know some of
your primary relationships where
you weren't seen or you weren't
connected in the same way you know over
and over and over again
so that's one way to define trigger I
think the other way to define it that's
really important is that it's when
in your body you have a really big
emotional reaction that is
not particularly warranted given the
situation and and warranted is a I like
I very much hesitate to use the word
because then people say well you
shouldn't have had that or that doesn't
make sense or that's not warranted as a
way to excuse and dismiss the other
person and I really don't want the word
to be used in that way it just means
that you know that on some level your
mind knows that
your reaction doesn't meet the
the experience that you just had that
the reaction is being create this big
emotional reaction is being created
because of the past not because of
what's actually happening in real time
so I think those are the two things and
the second is so important to Define
that way because it's how we know when
it's happening we have this big physical
reaction that on some level some part of
us knows
it isn't it isn't what's called for in
the moment it's not how we want to be
and it's not
and on on some level we know that it's
it's not about the current situation
so I'm curious to get a little bit more
into there than what makes that
attractive and what makes it better the
person who hits our triggers so that
we've so that our body has a visceral
reaction that's completely unrelated
we're very unrelated to the present
moment and very much related to our past
and our history
what makes that the the recipe for amor
yeah it's because we it's what we know
love to be right like so we're born and
we are like ducklings we you know we're
entrained to follow mama duck like we
are born with uh inherent connection to
our parents and it doesn't matter or
whoever is taking care of us and it
doesn't matter
who they are or what they do we want
connection with them we're gonna think
about them on some level for our entire
lives we're going to have that level of
connection we want their attention no
matter what we want their approval no
matter what like we are hardwired to
want that connection and so that's our
primary experience of love and so we
have this connection and then whatever
they do
becomes wired with love you know things
that fire together wire together and and
so
if they were ashamed if they shamed us
and we're gonna go find a partner who
likely either shames us or you know
completely you know reacts the other way
or will shame them but somehow that
shame is going to be in that
relationship and so it's just what we
know love to be it's what we know
connection to be
and so it's it's our nature to go
towards that towards the things that we
know well gosh that makes it sound like
we're just doomed to repeat ourselves
[Laughter]
yeah I think that most people are
um most people
do repeat patterns for generations and
generations and or they you know slowly
change those patterns and so I think
that is
the natural course unless you bring a
lot of conscious awareness to it and
really think about it and feel through
it and deal and do the work
I I definitely saw
I see like some healing that happens
like I saw my grandparents and my
parents I saw my wife's grandparents and
parents and you can definitely see it
and that cycle happen in fact you see
this with alcoholism like probably one
of the most clear places is where you'll
see somebody
with like kind of have an alcoholic
parent and they become very
um rigid and controlling and that you
know have a very clear Al-Anon thing and
then they give rise to the next
generation of alcoholic and then they
give rise to the next generation of
Al-Anon I can look back at Family
histories and I see that all the time
that kind of repeating pattern
and so unless we're really saying hey
we're going to consciously work on this
and try to change it
the the healing process can take
Generations yeah
I mean I know I know people who who
were raised by Vietnam vets and
like and if the Vietnam Vets didn't do
the work
um and and granted there wasn't a
tremendous amount of options for them
when they came back
when when they if they didn't weren't
lucky enough to find the work and do it
you know their kids still have responses
of
you know the rage that the Vietnam vet
had if that was a particular
predilection and they or the um
disconnection that they have because the
Vietnam vet you know needed to
disconnect from themselves to deal with
the PTSD
yeah and and their grandkids are going
to have it that's how it works unless we
do something yeah
yeah it strikes me that these These are
really good examples but they're also
sort of like capital T trauma examples I
wonder if there are a few examples of
things that are that are more common
they come up in romantic relationships a
lot that don't necessarily they're not
necessarily because of
a war experience of the parent
yeah not being seen
um not getting the attention that we
want
having love a link to criticism linked
to shame
uh having to prove our lovability
walking on eggshells around certain
emotional responses
uh you know avoiding anger uh
getting angry
passive aggression being punished or
reinforced for different behaviors that
the parents did or didn't want yeah
being valuable because of your
productivity because of the amount of
money you make the amount of money you
can give feeling cared for over by money
instead of by affection shame around sex
and yeah endless
yeah yeah I imagine a lot of a lot of
people listening to this might be like
well wait I'm I'm in a relationship and
we're never triggered it's just it's
just great yeah like you and me Brett
we're never triggered never ever
um you know it's funny you know I was
sitting at a restaurant um Tara and I
just finished a
a week long and
um we were I was at a restaurant we were
recovering and we were at a beach in
southern California
and there was this
couple and they were sitting there and
and they had a friend with them so it
was two women and this man
and the woman was
I don't know how to explain it she was
so domineering
um and she was domineering her friend
and she was dominating her the partner
and the partner was like this big like
Marine guy like we were in a military
town and
and she'd be like what do you want to
eat and then she'd say I think you
should eat this this and this and he'd
be like um you know I think I'm gonna
have this he's like no no no you should
eat this this and this it was like
literally like that
and he never had an emotional response
so he could easily have said that God is
never triggered by this but you could
see that he was like
I would almost say violently shut down
like he hardly spoke
he was like the patient expression was
repressed rage
and he like like literally most of his
responses were like the most minute nods
like yes it was like a half an inch up
like that was like it was like all that
contained and repressed and so
trigger doesn't mean that you get angry
trigger might be that you're like oh I'm
just repressing that thing or it could
be passive aggression or it could be
like extreme sadness or a lot of fear or
anxiety trigger can be any emotional
response it could be a subtle freeze
yeah exactly
so that was so cool to watch this it was
amazing
well what was cool about it
just what what what what fascinated me
was there she had been probably acting
this way for 35 36 37 years and was just
absolutely unaware of it like she was
out like not at all aware of what was
happening
to that she was being that dominant and
that the reaction she was getting from
the folks
both both of these two people she just
like were just
nope I'm just you know she's just being
me she just had no idea which is to me
totally fascinating and awesome that you
can exist in that way to me it sounds
like she was also in trigger
yeah yeah yeah for sure for sure she was
everybody was acting out of conditioning
and not out of
not out of their present where they
wanted to be
yeah I think it's really interesting how
we can end up in these stable stable
Dynamics because we've learned to
we've learned to cover or avoid each
other's triggers in just the right way
and we do a lot of dancing around it and
something a pattern for me just to speak
to bring this back into the into the
personal for one of us on this on this
episode
um a pattern that I've had for a lot of
relationships in my life is that I would
get into a relationship and things would
be perfect for like a couple of years
and we would just remarket how little we
fight this is just amazing and then
eventually there'd be there'd be
fighting and we'd move through that in
whatever way
and I looking back into myself part of
something for me has always been in this
work is to welcome my anger and allow
myself to feel it and also the same for
my partner and so like Alexa and I have
had times where
neither of us would be expressing anger
and if one of us expressed anger maybe
one or the other one would would either
go into like a little bit of a shame or
some kind of freeze type trigger and we
just learned how not to not to bring
those triggers up and that was very much
to each of our detriment because then
each of us might feel a little bit
resentful at the other one not being
fully in their power or a little bit
just kind of
like we weren't getting the most out of
life everything was everything was great
from a number of objective perspectives
but you know just something something
wasn't quite there until
the trigger actually was allowed to rise
and then brought into awareness and then
we're like oh this is a thing we've been
we've had this all along now let's let's
go into it
I agree with that completely and it has
been really amazing to be in this
relationship with you where we are so
committed to our own Freedom that that
we're really excited to see each other
like really delve into the depths and
bring things out
um but I
the thing that I see most often when I'm
talking to other people
is is people who whose actions kind of
stop at the point where they are trying
to prevent the other one from getting
triggered like that's the thing I think
is most common
is people who feel like that it's
important for them to act a certain way
or repress a certain thing about
themselves because if that were to come
out it would totally trigger their
partner
and that would be unacceptable and so
everything just stops there
yeah yeah I call that walking on
eggshells and the interesting thing
about that is that the result of that is
that you don't feel loved in your
your relationship
because what you're basically saying is
I can't bring this part this part of
myself can't be accepted here this part
of myself has consequences
and and so on some level you know that
you're not being seen and you're not
being loved
and eventually that builds resentment
and that creates tension in the
relationship and whether it's just all
of a sudden wait I was in a happy
marriage and now it's just over or
whether it devolves into disdain or
something like that
that's how I see that end up
yeah I see that too the thing that I
think is
oh
sort of tragic is usually people don't
consciously realize
that they are feeling unloved
and so it just can go on for a really
long time often they think that they're
doing something so that they can
maintain the loving feelings in the
relationship
yeah that's right that's right yeah I I
working with a couple recently where
they've been married for 16 years have
kids and everything and they they
thought their job was to make sure the
other person wasn't triggered and now
they're just pissed all the time
all the time at each other I don't even
know if they're aware of it but it's
like
that never got the expression in the
relationship and you just look at their
faces and it's just like wow you guys
are both pissed all the time
and then who the hell wants to stay in a
relationship with someone who's pissed
at you all the time or that you're
pissed at all the time and so the
marriage is having some
some issues obviously and both of them
it just it took like a couple months for
them just to see that the work is say
what you want be yourself
don't worry about the consequences
don't get angry at each other and I want
to make sure that like people are
hearing this know that like I am not
ever suggesting to start yelling at your
partner as a way to get your anger out
but go get your anger out somewhere else
and then be kind to each other
um
if you guys want to do an experiment
where you're like hey can I get
permission to be mad at you and somebody
says yes
then that's fine but unless you have
permission from someone to be I don't I
don't suggest just yelling at each other
to get the anger out and you got to get
the anger out you got to move the anger
and that energy here
it just goes to disdain I mean it does
bring up the answer is yes the answer is
yes if you have permission yeah yes if
someone's willing to receive the anger
and be there to love you while you
process it and not necessarily buy the
story and get into the story with you
you're like yeah like screw him but just
letting you move the anger and being
there with it that's actually wonderful
yeah if someone's there for that
it's it's it's it's actually incredibly
healing
to be loved in that anger because to
some degree it was that that part was
unaccepted which is why it's this
massive state in our system so to
actually have someone love and accept it
it's great and it's also just fine to
get in your car and yell or go to the
woods and yell or wait till everybody's
out of the house and get all your anger
out or write out your anger or do
whatever the hell you have to do to get
it to move it and yeah if you've got
someone who can particularly not buy
into the story and feel your anger
that's fantastic
yeah so I'm curious to bring up a couple
of uh like tools or tricks or you know
hints that people could use if someone's
if someone's in a relationship and
they're like okay where are these
triggers there's there might be some
obvious triggers and there might be some
less obvious triggers maybe I noticed
that I get a little bit annoyed every
time my partner makes a certain kind of
joke and I wonder what's underneath it
you know like if someone's trying to
like kind of get under the corner of the
rug here and really start doing the
digging what are what are some ways to
do that you know I don't I don't think
digging is so necessary like if you live
there's the obviable for some people if
you have obvious triggers work on those
and that will
what that does is you'll work on those
triggers and as those start to go away
you'll become more sensitive to the more
subtle triggers and then those are the
next ones to work on so the the system
has this your your system has this
really beautiful way of
of telling you what's the most important
thing to work on and then the next most
important thing and the next most
important thing and as you as that
creates more peace in your system you
become more aware of the the wrinkles in
in the system and the triggers where
that's not true is if you're one of
those folks who
usually a strong sense of obligation
comes with this but if you're one of
those people who are like oh it's been
three years and I've never been
triggered by my relationship if you're
in that category then you might actually
need help finding triggers and the best
way to do that is notice any time that
you hesitate to say anything because
your partner is going to have an
emotional reaction or your partner is
too weak to handle it or because you're
trying to protect your partner or but
any way that you're not actually that
you have a thought to say something and
you don't say it those are great places
to to find the triggers
and you can do that same mechanism just
look for all those places you're not
saying anything and say them and then
see if you're not triggered
that's your advice just start by start
by saying yeah yeah say the stuff
yeah that's pretty edgy
yeah I mean take it slow and maybe one
thing a day or
um and also learn how to say the things
really kindly but I I think that that I
don't want to say that because then
people will hedge what they say and
instead of learn how to do it in a kind
way so let's say a husband
drops off their wife at the airport and
hardly like almost rolling stop you know
it doesn't get out of the car it doesn't
hug her and she's triggered by that
let's use that an example one way to
address that directly is
what the [__]
you know what are you doing like I'm
your wife get out of the [__] car
one way to address that is hey
sweetheart I would
um love you to get out of the car and
say goodbye to me like that make me feel
great if you could do that leaving or
one way is to guilt them into it like
Ugh if you loved me you would and one
way is to do it all defensively like
yeah so I yeah I mean if you cared you'd
get out of the car like there's so many
ways to ask for it but the most
important way is to ask for it and then
get good at asking for it then be kind
but whatever is required to actually ask
for it directly and and cleanly
go there
I would love to come at this from the
other direction as well because the
thing that I see most often or at least
it just has been coming up recently
is people who are
for whatever reason having a hard time
being with their Partners emotional
states yeah um
and so I think that that another way you
could approach this is to uh in whatever
way figure out what is or feel into what
is hard for you to be with
and just somehow determined that you're
going to try so if it's really hard for
you to be with your partner's pain
just try showing up for it
and then from that place it can be a
little bit easier to say something that
you think might sort of bring up pain
for them
but then you're you're gonna stay and be
with that pain
yeah I would I would say that that is a
beautiful way to work it and the actual
thing you're being with is your own pain
absolutely yeah so it's it's their pain
is evoking something in you so maybe
their pain is evoking your helplessness
or maybe their pain is evoking your pain
um but you're being in that you're not
being being with them is evoking
something in you and if it isn't then it
would be easy to be in there be with
them in their pain right so it's
learning to be with yourself in that
yeah
yeah this brings up a just a common
feature of trigger is that we often make
the trigger about the other person
and part of the path to owning that
trigger and to being with it is to own
it and to recognize that it's our own
experience that's uncomfortable for us
in that moment that it may be the
experience of being afraid to draw a
boundary
um like with someone else's actions but
ultimately
the more we can bring the more that we
can have that trigger come up and have
it be about us like hey honey I'd love
for you to get out of the car and give
me a hug as I get out and go to the
airport
yeah you know it's not what are you
doing
yeah I think there's a that's that's
part of the path too when when if you're
starting to explore this and more
triggers are coming up part of the path
out of it is that they're your triggers
they're your ex it's your experience and
the more you can be with your experience
the more you'll be able to be with your
partners
yeah owner I statements are really
important in in this work I think that
the thing that struck me about what
Alexa just said is that yeah so we're
talking about two different ways one way
is to see it to say the thing that's
important for you to say that you're not
saying and the other thing is to be with
the emotion that you're having a hard
time being with instead of avoiding it
and I would say the the one of those two
things that you're most likely to do the
most productive path is the other one so
if it's a feeling for you to like oh I'm
just going to be with their emotional
state then probably the better work for
you is to do the thing to say the thing
and if it and if you're more likely to
be like yeah I'll just say that thing
but to actually be with them emotionally
is the hard part then that's probably
being with emotionally is the better
work for you and just do both like
there's you don't have to choose but
I'll just I think that that's a
a good point yeah yeah I love that
because I can see an another Pitfall
that comes up commonly I think is once
people
develop a some some sort of internal
should of I should be there for my
partner's trigger that it can often mean
that they're just going to accept
whatever Behavior
and roll over and not not fully show up
with their own needs
has and have that have that mean that
what they're doing is loving their
partner the good news about that is
they'll be triggered all the [__]
time in a short period like it will take
long for them to be triggered all the
time
sorry Alexa
I would even go so far as to say anytime
you're shooting yourself that's also
trigger yeah
and probably you're avoiding something
yes
yeah that's true yeah it's like saying
I'm a bad partner and I would be a
better partner if I were different in
this way
yeah
yeah you're well you're creating a shame
cycle either way like if it's a [__]
it's a shame cycle there's I think
there's a healthy way to say oh this
isn't the partner I want to be and I
want to do this but if you're in the
shed then you're in a shame
spiral with it yeah
yeah so Okay so we've
we've covered a bunch of ground here
we've talked about we've talked about
triggers we've talked about how they can
create you know unseen Dynamics and
relationships and how we can bring that
into awareness and then once we've once
these triggers are more in our awareness
how we can be with our partners in those
triggers without leaving ourselves and
how we can own and be with ourselves and
our own triggers and our avoided
feelings and how to
choose the path of most resistance for
us and most growth among those options
and I'd like to talk a little bit about
what are some more what are some
examples just from from any of our lives
or from client relationships of just
really well handled triggers
yeah and the the most obvious thing is
like though that exercise that we do in
the connection course which is
you know we have this at one exercise
this is where we're handling triggers
where we're learning to to respond to
triggers in a way that is productive and
the most the and the first step of that
is to
feel into your trigger and accept the
state accept that state you know get
into your body
allow yourself to feel that way
and not try to tell yourself that you
should be in a different way but to be
present with what actually is going on
in your in your physical body
and then the second piece is to ask
questions that are open-ended and
non-judgmental
and we've seen people do that in
I've seen people when I used to do that
course live
I saw
people say oh my gosh like
we just resolve without a conversation
we just resolved multiple issues just by
asking questions just without even the
response to the questions
so that would be something like uh as an
example of that would be something like
uh oh I have like I have a great example
of this we were I was working in a
company and we were doing this exercise
and
and it was a one of the people who
worked at the company was xcia ex-navy
seal big dude
strong powerful willful human being I
really really dug this guy and then
there was a programmer who was like an
AI programmer who was like five foot
three and
very conflict avoidant and
total sweetheart and
his job was to try to trigger the Navy
SEAL so the Navy SEAL could practice you
know the response and
and he couldn't think of anything or he
didn't want to have the conflict or
whatever and
and so they called me over because I'm
as you both know I'm good at triggering
people and uh I said to the Navy SEAL I
said um your hard exterior makes it so
that you're not going to ever get the
love that you want
and
and so he stopped he felt his body which
was interesting because I found out
later that he had a whole system for
being present being your body under
stress that they use for like being in
combat and so he literally used that
with through breath or whatever use that
for you know whatever it was a second or
two and then he looks over at me and he
says
um
I really want to have deeper Connections
in my life How can I how do you propose
that I can get there
it was just like this immediate thing
and like I got chills and I looked over
the programmer who started weeping and
he started weeping and it was like this
amazing moment of just that one question
immediately changed the trigger made it
changed everything
because the person who is getting asked
the question feels heard they don't feel
like they're being attacked they feel
like oh wait and the person who's asking
the question has moved from a fear
response and an anger response into
Wonder
and
it's really neurologically impossible as
far as I can find to hold wonder and
anger or wonder and fear at the same
time
and so by putting that out there it like
totally changed the thing so that's one
technique there are literally dozens but
that one's incredibly useful in the fact
that now you can actually immediately
start moving into solving the situation
as far as finding ways that you want to
be together that actually feel better
for both of you I think some important
signposts for that also are that you
know you delivered this trigger this is
in the context of an exercise and it
wasn't meant for him to take on that
story of oh I've got my walls up and I'm
never going to get love in him to just
believe it even more but for it to bring
up the trigger and one thing that we've
talked about in our in the courses is
that when you feel triggered there's
actually a part of you that feels seen
there's a part of you that's that
already believes and buys it hence there
being any defense yeah and so in that
story I'm just I'm noticing that he
he then asked questions from the place
of seeing that part of himself and
wanting Freedom not buying the story and
then spiraling into shame
that's yeah so it's interesting because
there's a subtle difference right if if
we get defensive if if there's somebody
who says something to us and we get
defensive
you know then we're telling ourselves
the same story so on some level
you are buying into but you're not
buying into the shame you're saying oh
yes I also hold that story or it
wouldn't have made me triggered I also
hold the story that I'm not doing the
dishes enough if it gets triggered that
or I also hold the story that I'm
supposed to
do more around the house or I also hold
the story that I'm supposed to do what
my wife tells me to do and do dishes is
one of those things so if I get
defensive in any way then I'm also
holding the story which is why
dealing with triggers is so productive
is because you get to see through your
own
um ego limiting beliefs identity
um through the the thoughts that trigger
you that somebody else saying something
triggers you and so you get to see
through those which is amazing
mm-hmm I don't assume that this will
make it into the podcast but I just want
to say I was just mapping I was just
mapping that explanation to how I was
thinking about it internally and it was
it was so different but it eventually
came back around to the same place which
is to say I was thinking about this this
guy
um
from the pair activity exercise and how
the the response that we would normally
think of as the triggered response would
be to defend the thing that feels
a threat so in his case like the thing
that feels a threat is that he is gonna
miss out on connection and if he is so
constricted around that unwanted outcome
that he defends it then it stays in this
in this stance that creates often
triggering the other person because
there's this feeling of of like now
we're in a fighting stance
um and just the somatic thing of just
like letting it all the way in just like
that could be
and then what what could I do to change
that
is itself so different so unexpected
that the other person's nervous system
just opens in response yeah and that's
the crying that you saw it's just wow
like
we're both just here and I really love
that it's this this
intention to just go there just let it
be that seems so powerful and that's
that's what I love about this work
there's something else I want to say
about this which is so in in the Crazy
Wisdom
um Tibetan Buddhist
tradition there's like three steps to it
and um like there's three steps where
the teacher three ways in which the
teacher in order helps a student you
know and the first one is they become
friends like they create a deep sense of
connection
and then the second one is they trigger
the [__] out of the person as much as
possible until the person can't be
triggered they literally just say things
to like to to needle them that's their
job is to like needle the student until
the student isn't needable needle a bull
anymore
so it's literally like the second step
is to just
oh you're doing that wrong you're you're
not setting up right you're not
meditating correctly you're you cook
like an idiot like whatever to try to
trigger the ego so that they can see
where their ego still exists
and then the third one is to turn every
idea about spirituality upside down for
them
um but that but just to say like you
could do that or you could just get
married
[Laughter]
that's really interesting
I'm curious what's the like how
listeners might tell the difference
between this particular Zen practice of
befriending somebody and holding them in
love while then needling them until all
their triggers are
you know surfaced and evaporated the
difference between that and somebody
just criticizing somebody and saying
it's because I love you
because it's in it's actually in love I
think that's the difference and I think
that's the reason that some marriages
are counterproductive is because it's a
lot easier to learn that lesson one if
there's an agreement like oh this is I'm
here to learn this lesson but also
which is why I think it's so important
to have that agreement in a marriage but
also if it's done in love right if it's
if in this particular case the teacher
isn't triggered back
right but in marriage the teacher your
our teacher our husband wife is actually
triggered back often right so it's not
like it's not like oh you're a horrible
meditator it's
you're a horrible meditator and if you
meditate it better then we'd have more
friends at the Country Club and if we
have more friends at the Country Club
then I would be happier and then I could
like get a better job and blah blah so
why don't you just meditate better so
you know it's like there's all that
you know craziness
so
we we there's a kind of also the
separation that the teacher the student
doesn't particularly buy into the belief
that if the teacher is happier then they
could be happier they buy into the
belief that the teacher is probably
happier than they are
so and so you know think yeah have it
have a different thing to overcome there
but yeah whereas in a marriage you're
like oh my God my wife was just happy
then I could be happy is a common common
misperception
yeah it's an interesting flip and I can
also imagine there's a lot of
relationships where one person takes on
the role of the teacher and the other
one takes on the role of the student
in that way and that's that's great for
a student-teacher relationship that's
not great for romantic Partners business
partners
yeah it's great if you want to stop
having sex and get in a lot of fights
I guess it all determines what your goal
is yeah
yeah I love what you said Alexa about
um
the dropping of Defense I think that's
really the the the core of all of this
work
is like how do I
love myself as I am how do I love other
people unconditionally
right yeah even the thing that you were
just saying about loving your partner
more like to me
I was expecting you to say it's about
loving yourself more
because to me that's that's where it all
comes back to and even that defense of
that guy
you know he was he was building like
Shoring up something defending the part
of himself that he felt like was not
lovable
but if you just let everything be
including all of you everything that
you're worried isn't lovable about
yourself then you are making room for
all of this to be loved and for you to
express love to your partner better and
so on it's like the the directionality I
I think people get stuck trying to love
their partner better
by doing various things that are
actually can be really self-denying or
in in your language I think like
abandoning themselves
um yeah and that coming back to yourself
with full acceptance is actually a way
to love your partner better
yeah your Your Capacity to love your
partner is completely based on your
capacity To Love Yourself
the idea of sacrifice compromise
um
but like I don't find that that actually
helps people love better
I I think until you see that it's your
capacity to love is is your freedom and
that's what you want
you know but if it's like I'm
sacrificing myself for so and so then
you're creating like a victim
relationship or a savior relationship
and it always gets muddled it always
gets really um
what's the word uh it's really defended
and obligated and uh resentful
yeah
so on triggering people we've done one
thing where you talked about I
statements which I think is really
important and I think it can't just be I
statements but it's where you're owning
your own wants and your own experience
instead of telling somebody else what
their experience is
and then the other one is asking
questions or two of the things another
really great way to do it is to just
make sure the person feels heard
so if somebody's like
any trigger you know wait you're always
asking me to
fill the car up with gas or
um you're trying you're treating me like
your mom again I'm not your mom
um
then then there's just oh I I what I'm
hearing you say is that you know I'm
treating you like my mom again and
and I just want you to know I I hear
that that's your experience of the of
the situation like just that can be
calming for people to just feel heard in
their experience
and usually when we're in a fully
triggered State people are talking over
each other they're not listening to One
Another anymore they assume they know
what's going to be said they assume
what's coming next they're already
thinking about their response nobody's
actually focused on how do I make sure
that my partners feel seen
because that's a huge part of of the
triggering and the fights that we get
into is people not feeling seen
in their situation
so that's another I think a really
important part is just to allow that and
and the other thing that Alexa said
which is
how can you relax into being with
somebody in an uncomfortable emotional
state
and draw boundaries sometimes emotional
states are at you and so maybe there's
no reason to be with that too right
I think some one of the ways that Tara
and I have dealt with triggers is to
draw boundaries with each other which I
think is great it's like oh I'm not
gonna I'm not gonna be here with you
crying at me or being angry at me
yeah I'm happy to come back to the
conversation when that's over
yeah I think that points to one of the
pitfalls we brought up earlier which is
that like people can get into the belief
of I should be able to be there for my
partner's trigger and so I'm gonna
suppress my own trigger so that their
trigger can be held yeah
rather than drawing a boundary and
taking care of myself
yeah right self-care is absolutely the
the priority in all of this work to take
care of yourself to love yourself to
treat yourself with love and respect you
can't you can't treat others without
that yeah which coming back to sort of
the premise of the the beginning of this
relationship series of that you know to
be in a relationship where we both agree
that we are in it for our own freedom I
think that can come off to a lot of
people as very individualistic and not
you know not seeing the ecosystem of the
of the couple and I think that a lot of
what we've been talking about now really
points to that it creates more space
for both Partners to exist in the
relationship it creates more space in
the ecosystem for more of what each of
us
each of the each partner brings and is
and gifts and triggers and fears
yeah I think and probably the same thing
can be said when I talked about
compromise where I was like Hey like I
don't I don't believe in compromise in a
relationship like this or probably any
relationship and that can come off as
very hard for people so I just want to
explain it the same way that you just
explained
making more space
so if there is something that Tara is
really strongly believes in that doesn't
work for me our the way that we work
that out is it's not I'm gonna
compromise and and
what I mean to say is that I am not
going to deny a part of myself
to make sure that she's happy
and her happiness is incredibly
important to me but it's not my job
so
what we do instead is we say we're very
clear on our nose right and that we're
very clear like this won't work for me
she's like this won't work for me and we
assume that we can find a solution that
can work for both of us
and so some people might call that
compromise but I'm not calling it
compromise because I don't feel
compromised at the end of it and neither
does Tara we both feel like okay we
found something that works for both of
us and and we have faith that we can do
that
and
and it's when people feel compromised
over and over again
you're on one level the idea is like oh
I'm benefiting them by compromising
myself that's why we do it that's the
thought process but what you're actually
doing is creating a relationship that
has more resent resentment in it so
that's not going to benefit them and
it's you're also not teaching them how
you need to thrive so that's not
benefiting them so what you're going to
get is a relationship where
one person's resentful and the other
person is
married or dating somebody who's not
thriving
and that's not sexy and that's not hot
and that's not healthy and so it's far
more important to do the work that's
required to figure out how both people
can get their needs met in a way that
feels great for everybody and everybody
can be excited about
yeah yeah and a feature a feature of the
compromise seems to be that there's a
false end it's like well we've
compromised and this is where we're at
and that's just the decision we've made
and something that it seemed that I'm
picking up from what you're saying is
that if we are
if we are both committed to finding a
thing that works for both of our needs
that's it is a really tall order because
we have infinite needs like they're just
going to continue to grow and they're
going to continue to have some kind of
apparent conflict but sitting in the
question sitting in the Wonder of yeah
how is it if we assume that there's a
way to get both of our needs met and we
sit in that question what new Solutions
come to the surface none of them Perfect
all of them in iteration yeah and not
stop the process and say well there's
our compromise and that's that yeah
totally it and it which speaks to
something else too which is I don't
really believe in commitments in the
relationship outside of the commitment
to be committed to the relationship
trippy yeah we we we change right like
the commitment the way what Tara needed
when she was 26 is not what Taran needs
now and what I needed when I was 26 is
not when we got married is not what I
need now and
like so I I think that the the agreement
we have is like how do we support each
other's growth and be there for each
other in that way
and and that's our priority and that's
like that's the commitment we have to
the relationship and so we both get to
experience a lot of freedom and we both
get to experience
you know support and tenderness and care
and but we don't feel like we have to be
a certain way for the other person or
have to maintain some way of Being for
the other person
and so this idea of commitment even
sexual commitment or commitment to
agreements or roles or ways of being or
dishes or like all that
needs to be renegotiated as our needs
change
it makes me really wonder what your vows
were like
[Laughter]
yeah me too I have no idea
yeah it also strikes me as really funny
and great because I get a lot of
questions about yeah what kind of
commitments or what kind of rules are
going to make my relationship
work for me especially in sort of like a
poly or ethical non-monogamy or just
like some little bit of opening up some
sort of relationship transition question
and that question I'm all I never have
any idea how to respond like that's not
how I make my relationships work for me
yeah
yeah less rules more Attunement yeah
exactly exactly the path that we take
yeah especially in that field when I've
worked with clients that are you know
have open relationships
those agreements always are changing and
they have to
they like that they might have an
agreement but it's always temporary
right you know and and the couples that
I know who have been doing that you know
having that lifestyle for now 25 years
of marriage
um
their agreements have totally changed
through that time frame you know from oh
completely open to slightly open to only
together open only together to
like the whole they've had like massive
Transitions and it depends on like do
you have kids do you are you taking
somebody taking care of a baby
you know you know are you going through
menopause are you you know like right
and all of those things have an effect
and they're all biological changes that
affect the agreement in the relationship
if we're if we're actually being attuned
which is beautifully said
well this seems like a pretty good place
to stop
polyamory and scene
I actually did have one more topic
though it seems like maybe kind of a
left turn but it's just it's another
thing that I I feel like keeps coming up
a lot yeah please
people asking how to get out of a
dynamic that they're in that's more or
less something like an anxious avoidant
dynamic
so for instance somebody like how can I
stop
uh feeling hurt because I'm sort of like
chasing after somebody who's emotionally
unavailable and then they they
disconnect I'm I'm always doing that how
can I stop yeah yeah I mean we've
already covered the how but I want to
put it into that context so let's say
just just to translate what you asked
let's say that there's somebody who's
constantly chasing the lovers they're
constantly fighting for their attention
or they're the ones that are rejected or
they're the ones that are abandoned and
that their lovers are always the one who
are kind of aloof and distant and
they're like how do I get out of that
Dynamic and the way through is to fully
fall in love with and accept and look
forward to the emotional state that
happens when you are rejected or when
you are chasing and when you are chasing
the person it's it's it's
falling in love with that part of
yourself is the quickest way to do it
and
the other thing that can be helpful in
that particular Dynamic is
seeing that every one of you like all
the ways in which you're wanting the
attention are also ways in which you're
pushing the person away
this is like jealousy is like that
jealousy is like I really want that
person but my jealousy in its in and of
itself is pushing them away
or my neediness is pushing them away
and
um so to be able to see that every which
which means on some level you also don't
want it and you're not taking
responsibility
right so there's and so that's the kind
of the empowering move that that most
people are going to reject it first
until they see it which is oh I'm
actually pushing them away so therefore
I am choosing to push them away there's
something in me that doesn't want that
level of intimacy
there's something in me that equates
love with chasing not love with
receiving
and so I'm scared of a love where I
receive I'm scared of the other guy
across the room who's like wants to
adore me and wants to be media of me I'm
like no [__] that I don't even find you
attractive
and so I'm making a choice here
and and if they can see that their
choice and move to the empowered stance
of like oh I can I can feel all the
stuff I'm scared to feel including the
stuff like receiving love or feeling
empowered or feeling like I'm hot [__]
and they can earn my they can earn me
they don't I'm not going to chase them
all those emotional experiences that
they
aren't allowing themselves to feel
because it's so [__] scary and it's
either scary because it feels like an
abyss that I'm gonna fall into or it
feels I'm going to be arrogant if I'm
like you know you gotta earn me all of
those experiences until they're until
they're all felt and loved then you're
in the you're going to be in that
dynamic
also as we talked about you and I and
grief it's like when that relationship
ends if you can grieve that thing
entirely
fully grieve the fact that you have been
spending 20 years of your life chasing
pretty much your mom or dad's love
through the face of a boyfriend or a
girlfriend
and that's how you've chosen to spend
your life and you thought video games
was a waste of [__] time and you can
fully grieve that experience you know
that can also be a huge part of that
healing Journey yeah beautifully said
awesome well that does not feel like a
great great ending point
again I'm hoping Alexa just goes no it's
not God damn it don't tell me what to do
Brad you're always speaking over me why
do you do this to me
you just made this podcast go over one
hour we've never done that before now we
have
ah you always do this
hahaha
I still have a story that I always do
this thank you for seeing me in my
slowness
even though we were joking that still
made me know
this is really fun all right thank you
both Total pleasure okay bye
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign
[Music]